@page cardano-tss-details TSS Implementation Details

In this section we provide background information on the implementation methodology and design decisions. The implementation mostly follows that outlined in \[1\] and \[2\] with some additions specifically to support Cardano wallet keys. Cardano wallets use BIP32-Ed25519 keys for HD wallets \[3\]. It turns out that BIP32-Ed25519 style keys are particularly well suited for use with threshold signature techniques because they are already in extended form. Traditional Ed25519 secret keys consist of a secret 32-byte seed that is then extended to 64 bytes through SHA-512 hashing prior to signing. The lower 32 bytes of the extended key are interpreted (after clamping) as the secret scalar and used for signing. The threshold signature techniques implemented by this library work directly with secret scalar values. In fact, for some cases the key spitting calculations produce secret scalers, which would make calculating the original seed impossible. However, since this library uses extended BIP32-Ed25519 style keys, a valid key may be created directly from a secret scalar.

@section section-details-direct Direct Key Splitting

For direct key splitting, the composite secret scalar \f$S\f$ must be the summation of the key share scalars \f$S = (S_1 + S_2 + ... + S_N)\,\text{mod}\,L\f$, where the summation is modulo the Curve25519 \[11\] group order \f$L = 2^{252} + 27742317777372353535851937790883648493\f$. If starting with a root key to split, the final key share \f$S_N\f$ may be calculated from the root and the other key shares as \f$S_N = (S - S_1 - S_2 - ... - S_{N-1})\,\text{mod}\,L\f$. As can be seen, only the final key share is restricted to ensure the summation of key shares is valid. For each N-1 key share, we can use a randomly generated seed and compute the extended key using a method such as that outlined in \[3\]. For the final key share, only the secret scalar \f$S_N\f$ is known and it may not be appropriately clamped \[4\]. An iterative approach may be necessary for applications that need all keys to be equally valid.

Once the lower 32 bytes of the key are known from the scalar, the upper 32 bytes and the chain code need to be generated. There is no particular restriction on these bytes other than they represent seemingly random data \[6\]. In this implementation, we compute the extended bytes as the SHA512 hash of the 32-byte packed secret scalar. The lower 32-bytes become the upper 32 bytes of the key, and the upper 32 bytes are used for the chain-code.

The direct key splitting math allows a composite key to be created from individual key shares not necessarily generated together. For example, if a party of \f$N\f$ signers wanted to come together to create a shared wallet, they could exchange public keys and compute a composite public key by simply adding the public keys as points on the elliptic curve. This composite public key could be used to generate an address whose funds could only be spendable by combining signature shares from every participant. The only issue with this approach is that it is susceptible to a rouge key attack as described in \[2\]. Such an attack may be mitigated by the higher-level protocol with some increased complexity. If library methods are used to generate a composite key from only the key shares, the chain code for the composite key is generated as the SHA265 hash of the public keys: \f$\text{SHA}_{256}(PK_1 || ... || PK_N) = \text{ChainCode}\f$.

Regardless of how the composite public key was generated, once a composite public key is obtained, a valid Cardano address may be generated according to \[5\]. Funds deposited to this address are only spendable by creating a transaction signature from all key shares.

The signature protocol is multiple steps and requires a single node to act as the “dealer” in order to combine the shares from each participant. In this case, when a message is to be signed, each participant must generate a random secret nonce \f$r\f$ and save it along with the message. The secret nonce is used to create a signature commitment \f$R\f$, which is just the nonce multiplied by the basepoint of the elliptic curve. Each participant sends their commitment share \f$R_i\f$ to the dealer who then computes the composite commitment \f$R = \sum R_i\f$ and distributes it to all the participants. Each participant then generates their signature shares using \f$R\f$ and \f$r_i\f$. The dealer combines the signature shares and checks for validity with the public key. If the signature is valid, the dealer may submit the result to the chain. The details for computing the signature shares and combination is provided in \[2\].

@section section-details-sss Shamir Secret Sharing

In Shamir Secret Sharing (SSS), each key share \f$y_i\f$ is generated by a \f$t-1\f$ degree polynomial where \f$t\f$ is the minimum threshold of unique key shares required to recreate the original secret. Likewise, a minimum of \f$t\f$ unique key shares are required to generate a combination of signature shares to produce a single valid signature. The root key, which may be a previous Ed25519 private key or generated randomly, is used to produce a big integer scalar that is the zeroth order polynomial coefficient \f$a_0\f$. The remaining coefficients \f$a_1\f$ through \f$a_{t-1}\f$ may be chosen randomly from integer scalars in the range \f$1\f$ to \f$L\f$. Note that each key share must have a unique ID number \f$x_i\f$ that must be larger than zero but less than \f$L\f$. Given the coefficients and IDs, the key shares are generated as
\f[
y_i(x_i) = a_0 + a_1x_i^1\,...\,a_{t-1}x_i^{t-1}\,\text{mod}\,L.
\f]

Note that the generated scalars may be transformed into valid BIP-32 Ed25519 keys by packing them as 32 byte integers and padding with a pseudo random 32 bytes. A chain code may be computed at random or derived from the original key. In this implementation, the secret is first packed into a 32-byte array and then hashed using \f$\text{SHA}_{512}\f$ in order to produce a 64-byte array of pseudo random bytes. The key bytes are extended with the 64-bytes to result in a valid 96-byte BIP-32 Ed25519 key with chain code.

From the polynomial above, it is evident that \f$x = 0\f$ is an invalid key share ID since it would cause the secret key to be returned. Both \f$y_i\f$ and \f$x_i\f$ must be retained as \f$y_i\f$ cannot be used for signature combination without the corresponding x-coordinate. 

SSS key shares are recombined using Lagrange basis recovery. Each key share \f$(x_i,y_i)\f$ must have a Lagrange coefficient \f$l_i\f$ computed for it which is specific to the set of \f$N\f$ keys \f$(X,Y)\f$ being combined (where \f$N>=t\f$). The coefficients are computed as follows
\f[
l_i(x_i) = \sum^N_{j=0,j\ne i} \frac{x_i}{x_i - x_j}\,\text{mod}\,L.
\f]

Notice here that computation of the Lagrange coefficients requires both modulo subtraction and division of big, i.e., multiprecision, integers. The modular division operation was not provided in the original big integer implementation that this library derives from \[7\] and \[8\]. Interestingly, the algorithm for modular division consists of finding a modular inverse for the divisor and multiplying by the numerator \[9\]. In order the compute the modular inverse, the classic version of the Binary GCD algorithm was implemented \[10\].

Once the Lagrange coefficients are computed, the original secret may be computed from all the key shares as
\f$a_0 = l_1y_1 + l_2y_2 +\,...\,+ l_ty_t +\,...\,+ l_Ny_N\,\text{mod}\,L\f$. 
Note that the number of combined key shares \f$N\f$ may exceed the threshold \f$t\f$ but must be no smaller than \f$t\f$.
Similarly to key reconstruction, when combining signature shares, the Lagrange coefficients must be used.

Prior to signature share generation, each key-share holder must create and save a random nonce value \f$r_i\f$. This value is used to generate the signature share commitment \f$R_i\f$, which is shared with the dealer. The dealer generates an aggregate commitment share in the same way as when using direct key splitting. We may extend the protocol here to include generating the set of Lagrange coefficients. Instead of each key holder only sending their commitment share \f$R_i\f$ to the dealer, they will send the key ID \f$x_i\f$ as well. Then the dealer will compute and return both the aggregate commit \f$R\f$ and the Lagrange coefficient \f$l_i\f$.

Once the aggregate commitment \f$R\f$ and Lagrange coefficient \f$l_i\f$ are received, the signature share \f$S_i\f$ may be computed as \[2\]
\f[
S_i = [r_i + \text{SHA}_{512}(R,A,m)l_iy_i]\,\text{mod}\,L.
\f]

Each key-share holder sends its signature share to the dealer which combines them to produce the final valid signature. The combination is performed in the same way as for direct key splitting. Note that each key holder that participated in the computation of the Lagrange coefficients is required to provide a signature share or the final combination will fail.

@section section-details-references References
\[1\] Hallam-Baker, P. M., "Threshold Modes in Elliptic Curves", https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-hallambaker-threshold-09

\[2\] Hallam-Baker, P. M., "Threshold Signatures in Elliptic Curves", https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-hallambaker-threshold-sigs-06

\[3\] Khovratovich, D. and J. Law, "BIP32-Ed25519 Hierarchical Deterministic Keys over a Non-linear Keyspace", https://input-output-hk.github.io/adrestia/static/Ed25519_BIP.pdf

\[4\] RFC 8032: Edwards-Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (EdDSA), https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8032

\[5\] CIP-19: Cardano Addresses, https://cips.cardano.org/cip/CIP-19

\[6\] HD Wallet Chain Code, https://btcinformation.org/en/glossary/chain-code

\[7\] "Implementations of a fast Elliptic-curve Digital Signature Algorithm," GitHub, 2014. \[Online\]. Available: https://github.com/floodyberry/ed25519-donna. \[Accessed: 09-Nov-2024\]

\[8\] "Crypto++: free C++ Class Library of Cryptographic Schemes," GitHub, 2023. \[Online\]. Available: https://github.com/jdoe/my-awesome-project. \[Accessed: 09-Nov-2024\]

\[9\] Menezes, Alfred J., Paul C. Van Oorschot, and Scott A. Vanstone. Handbook of applied cryptography. CRC press, 2018.

\[10\] Pornin, Thomas. "Optimized binary gcd for modular inversion." Cryptology ePrint Archive (2020).

\[11\] Bernstein, Daniel J. "Curve25519: new Diffie-Hellman speed records." Public Key Cryptography-PKC 2006: 9th International Conference on Theory and Practice in Public-Key Cryptography, New York, NY, USA, April 24-26, 2006. Proceedings 9. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2006.
